# Tips & Learnings

- Really read the type error: this will help you better understand the issue and the types.
- strictNullChecks and noImplicitAny can be very helpful in finding bugs. Enable this as soon as possible in your project. Use strictNullChecks to prevent “undefined is not an object”-style runtime errors. Use noImplicitAny to type the source code to give more type information for the compiler.
- Together with these compiler's configurations, I always recommend being very precise about your types. Mainly with the values that occur only in runtime like an API response. Correctness is important to catch as many bugs as possible in compile time.
- Understand the difference between runtime and compile time: types only affects in compile type. It runs the type checker and then compiles to JavaScript. The JavaScript source code doesn't use any type of references or type operations.
- Learn about utility types. We talk about more specific about the Readonly in the immutability in compile time, but TypeScript has a box of helpers like Required, Pick, and many more.
- If possible, prefer letting the compiler infers the types for you. Most of the types and returning types are redundant. The TypeScript compiler is very smart in this topic. If not possible, you can always add type annotations. And let the type assertions as to the last option.
- As writing code, take a look at the tooling. The design of the tooling provided in an IDE is amazing. The IntelliSense and type checking provide a really good experience.